The PL-15 is a 9mm short recoil-operated, locked-breech handgun that uses a modified Browning cam-lock system adapted from the Hi-Power pistol. The firearm"'"s locking mechanism uses a linkless, vertically tilting barrel with a rectangular breech that locks into the ejection port cut-out in the slide. It features a double-action only (DAO) trigger, requiring a long and heavy trigger pull that puts the hammer into a cocked state and then releases it with every shot. The trigger pull weight is 4 kg, and the full length of the trigger pull is 7 mm. It has a manual safety that, when engaged, disconnects the trigger from the hammer. All controls (manual safeties, slide release levers and magazine release buttons) are fully ambidextrous. A loaded chamber indicator is provided in the form of a pin that protrudes from the back of the slide when a round is present in the chamber. The PL-15-01 and PL-15K-01 variants of the pistol are striker-fired and have a single-action trigger with a significantly reduced trigger pull weight and length. Cartridges are fed from proprietary detachable double-stack single-feed magazines. It features removable front and rear dovetail sight posts, completely interchangeable with sights designed for Glock pistols. The frame features a picatinny rail underneath the barrel for the attachment of accessories. The PL-15 pistol can be equipped with an extended, threaded barrel for installing a silencer.
The KRISS Vector is a series of weapons based upon the parent submachine gun design developed by the American company KRISS USA, formerly Transformational Defense Industries (TDI). They use an unconventional delayed blowback system combined with in-line design to reduce perceived recoil and muzzle climb.
The FAL (French: Fusil Automatique Léger, English: Light Automatic Rifle) is a battle rifle designed by Belgian small arms designer Dieudonné Saive and manufactured by FN Herstal. The FAL operates by means of a gas-operated action very similar to that of the Russian SVT-40. The gas system is driven by a short-stroke, spring-loaded piston housed above the barrel, and the locking mechanism is what is known as a tilting breechblock. To lock, it drops down into a solid shoulder of metal in the heavy receiver much like the bolts of the Russian SKS carbine and French MAS-49 series of semi-automatic rifles. The gas system is fitted with a gas regulator behind the front sight base, allowing adjustment of the gas system in response to environmental conditions. The piston system can be bypassed completely, using the gas plug, to allow for the firing of rifle grenades and manual operation. The FAL's magazine capacity ranges from five to 30 rounds, with most magazines holding 20 rounds. In fixed stock versions of the FAL, the recoil spring is housed in the stock, while in folding-stock versions it is housed in the receiver cover, necessitating a slightly different receiver cover, recoil spring, and bolt carrier, and a modified lower receiver for the stock.[10] For field stripping the FAL can be opened. During opening the rifle rotates around a two piece pivot lock and pin assembly located between the trigger guard and magazine well to give access to the action and piston system. This opening method causes a suboptimal iron sight line as the rear sight element is mounted on the lower receiver and the front sight element of the sight line is mounted on the upper receiver/barrel and hence are fixed to two different movable subassemblies.
The Kel-Tec RDB (Rifle, Downward-ejection, Bullpup) is a bullpup carbine offered in 5.56×45mm NATO semi-automatic rifle, manufactured by Kel-Tec Industries of Florida. It uses a rotary bolt with a spring loaded ejector and an extractor facing down, ejecting spent shell casings downward, allowing easy ambidextrous use. The RDB operates using the short-stroke piston system, firing from a closed bolt. A gas regulator is built into the Barrel Assembly Group to allow the operator to adjust the amount of gas used to cycle the action. The RDB uses a unique downward ejection method to permit the operator to fire the rifle from either side. During the extraction and ejection cycle, spent casings are dragged rearward over the magazine to the ejection chute located directly behind. The RDB bolt uses dual ejectors to assist in positive ejection, and has been demonstrated to operate normally even if the rifle is turned upside-down. While other bullpup rifles (FN 2000, Kel-Tec RFB, Desert Tech MDR) have used forward-ejection to allow ambidextrous use, these solutions tend to add parts and complexity to the design. Other bullpups can be converted to eject from one side to the other (IWI Tavor, Steyr AUG) but may not be able to do so without special parts.
The SIG Sauer P226 is a full-sized, service-type pistol made by SIG Sauer. This model is sold with a choice of four chambers to choose from: the 9×19mm Parabellum, .40 S&W, .357 SIG, or .22 Long Rifle. It has essentially the same basic design as the SIG Sauer P220, but is developed to use higher capacity, double stack magazines in place of the single stack magazines of the P220.
The Desert Tech MDR rifle is a gas operated, conventional rotary bolt Bullpup Semi-Auto rifle. The gas system features a gas piston, located above the barrel, and a manual gas regulator. MDR rifle is designed to be ambidextrous. The MDR contains an ambidextrous forward and side eject port and viewing window that allows for tool free forward ejector side change. A non reciprocating ambidextrous charging handle is installed on both sides of the gun, and two or three-position safety / selector levers and magazine release are provided on both sides of the pistol grip. The rifle is compatible with Desert Tech Caliber Conversion kits that allow the rifle to change caliber. This provides a unique feature in which the rifle chassis can accept both intermediate cartridges and full-powered rifle cartridges on the same serial number platform (such as 5.56×45mm NATO and 7.62×51mm NATO magazines).
The Heckler & Koch HK416 is an assault rifle designed and manufactured by the German company Heckler & Koch. Although its design is based on the AR-15 class of firearm, specifically the Colt M4 carbine family issued to the U.S. military, it uses a proprietary short-stroke gas piston system derived from the ArmaLite AR-18 (the same system was also used in Heckler & Koch's earlier G36 family of rifles). It is the standard assault rifle of the Norwegian Armed Forces, selected by the French Armed Forces to replace the FAMAS, and was the weapon used by SEAL Team Six to kill Osama Bin Laden in 2011.
The MP5 (German: Maschinenpistole 5) is a 9x19mm Parabellum machine pistol, developed in the 1960s by a team of engineers from the German small arms manufacturer Heckler & Koch GmbH (H&K) of Oberndorf am Neckar. There are over 100 variants and clones of the MP5, including some semi-automatic versions. The primary version of the MP5 family is the MP5A2, which is a lightweight, air-cooled, selective fire delayed blowback operated 9×19mm Parabellum weapon with a roller-delayed bolt. It fires from a closed bolt (bolt forward) position. The fixed, free floating, cold hammer-forged barrel has 6 right-hand grooves with a 1 in 250 mm (1:10 in) rifling twist rate and is pressed and pinned into the receiver.
The SR-3 Vikhr (СР-3 Вихрь, Russian for "whirlwind") is a Russian 9×39mm compact assault rifle. It was developed by A. D. Borisov, V. N. Levchenko and A. Tyshlykov at TsNIITochMash (Central Institute for Precision Machine Building) in the early 1990s and was manufactured in 1994. Heavily based on the AS Val, but lacks an integral suppressor, has a newly designed folding stock and charging handle for ease of concealed carry. The abbreviation "SR" stands for spetsialnaya razrabotka — special development. Because the SR-3 Vikhr is a rather expensive weapon for its small size and weight, it was not mass produced for the Russian military. Although, it was primarily used by the Russian Special Operations Forces and certain government officials' security details. The SR-3 is a compact assault rifle chambered in 9×39mm subsonic cartridge. It is primarily used with the SP-6 armour piercing ammunition with a hardened steel penetrator, that can penetrate a 6mm steel plate at a range of 200 metres. Along side the SP-6, a lower cost SP-5 ball ammunition with a heavy bullet and PAB-9 ammunition is also used. The SR-3 is based on the AS Val, but lacks the integral suppressor. As a result, it is much more compact than the AS Val. The SR-3 is a select-fire, gas-operated action with a long stroke piston. It uses the same rotating bolt group from the AS Val, and fires from a closed bolt. It has a more compact, top-folding buttstock and a simplified flip-up rear sight which can be set for 100 metres or 200 metres distance compared to the AS Val. The redesigned charging handle, made in the form of dual sliders above the forearm, and must be grasped by thumb and index finger and then retracted to load the weapon. The trigger unit is generally the same as in the AS Val, but the AK-type safety is replaced by ambidextrous lever above the pistol grip. The fire mode selector is of cross-bolt, push button type and located behind the trigger, inside the trigger guard.
